
		   ALICE: The Personal Pascal

			Product Updates

Points of Clarification:
------------------------

    When you change a declaration, ALICE does not do an automatic typecheck
of the whole program to correct error flags.  If you want this to happen, you
must request a typecheck yourself with CTRL-T.  You may become confused
because errors don't go away immediately when you fix a declaration. (If you
want typechecks to be done constantly, look up the "f=" command line option.)

    We have now defined ALT-F10 to do a "MOVE clip" command and ALT-F9 to do
a "GET clip" command so that you can use these keys for cut and paste to a
clipboard.  Handy for quickly moving pieces of code around in your programs.
You use ALT-F10 like a delete, and ALT-F9 picks it up again.

Please Note:
-----------

    In order to leave more space for new example programs and Turbo functions,
and to allow you to easily create a few of your own files on the ALICE disks,
the stand alone ALICE interpreter (APRUN.EXE) is no longer provided with the
normal ALICE distribution.  It is now part of the ALICE supplemental kit that
includes both APRUN.EXE and the Large Model version of ALICE.  There is an
order form for this kit in the back of your User Guide.

New Enhancements:
----------------

1)      The HELP command's command line (CTRL-X) argument is assumed to be the
	name of a built in symbol if it contains no slash (/).  Thus you can
	get help on any symbol by typing its name.  For example:
		>help writeln

2)      The Val procedure allows leading and trailing spaces if the +b option
	is NOT used (ie. -b).  With +b they are rejected as documented in the
	Turbo Pascal manual.  We want to allow the spaces because Str with no
	field width puts a leading space on integers if +b is not used.

3)      If you select (F10) a procedure or function that has no arguments, it
	is no longer possible to select just the name.  The whole call is
	selected, which is more convenient for deleting and other such
	operations.  It isn't more convenient if you wish to edit the name, so
	selection of names as a LEAF (without hitting F10) is still possible.

4)      The new '-s' option disables the requirement that you SELECT (F10)
	before deleting, editing or moving large structures.  This should only
	be used by people well familiar with the tree structure of Pascal
	programs, as otherwise you will never be sure about what you are about
	to delete.  There is always UNDO (CTRL-U) if you make a mistake.  You
	still need to SELECT to delete multiple items or to use new feature
	(3) above.

5)      On your disk is a sample inventory program in ALICE Pascal free from
	Looking Glass Software.  You can use, modify and even resell this
	program, so long as credit is always given to the ALICE system and
	Looking Glass Software.

6)      New command: COMPILE

	This command saves out the current file as text with the TEXT command
	and then acts like the DOS command, usually to invoke a Pascal
	compiler like Turbo Pascal.  The CTRL-F6 key is now defined to use
	this command.  Note that the file is not saved in ALICE's ".AP"
	format.  This means that if you crash while executing your DOS
	command, you will have to recover your file with the APIN command.

Known Bugs:
----------

Unfortunately this new release of ALICE: The Personal Pascal, like most new
programming language systems, has a few minor problems.  The following bugs
are either chronic or were not reported in time to be corrected prior to
release.  To help you avoid them, please note the following:

o  If ALICE runs out of memory while loading a program, some memory is lost
   for the remainder of the current editing session.  Usually it's not very
   much.  The solution is to save out, quit ALICE and begin again.  This
   also frees up memory lost to "fragmentation" in a long session.

o  There are problems using ALICE with out of date releases of Borland
   International's "Sidekick" program.   If you have problems with "break"
   or ALT keys while running Sidekick, update your Sidekick.

o  ALICE's handling of field references and WITH statements is not perfect
   when record declarations are deleted or the variable in a WITH statement is
   deleted.  Things that are implied field references that should become
   variables are not changed, and variables that should become implied fields
   are not changed either.  One way to correct any field problems in the body
   of a WITH statement is to MOVE (ALICE command) the whole body out to a
   workspace and COPY it back in.  This re-looks up any symbol references.

o  If you use the EDIT command to edit expressions, be warned that
   placeholders just get placed in the editing buffer as regular text.  When
   you are finished editing, they will not be turned back into placeholders,
   so you might get messages saying that the symbol "Value" is undefined.

o  You can't enter the integer constant -32768 because Pascal defines
   negative constants as a negative sign and a positive constant.  32768
   isn't a valid positive constant, so an error is generated.  Be warned
   that ALICE only allows you to access the number -32768 in order to
   do system work, and may revoke this privilege.  For now, you can only get
   this number by arithmetic operations.

o  Beware of using CProc routines like the CURSES windowing library when
   low on memory.  If these routines run out, they simply return error
   indicators and don't announce the fact or interrupt your program.
   If you don't check for trouble, (like a 0 return from newwin) you can
   step all over the memory of your computer, causing ALICE to "hang."
   Remember also that memory allocated by these routines is not de-allocated
   for you by the system.  If your program doesn't explicitly delete windows
   it creates the memory will be lost for the rest of the ALICE session.

o  Be warned that searching for small strings (for example, just the letter
   "e") can catch you up.  "e" will be found in words like "begin" and "end",
   which are everywhere in the program.  What's worse, ALICE doesn't really
   have a concept of putting the cursor on a word like "begin" and "end", so
   it often moves the cursor to the main thing in the block containing the
   found word.  This can be annoying, so be sure to be more specific in your
   searches.  Remember that ALICE is *not* a text editor, and you can't really
   treat it like one.

User Guide Errata:
-----------------

PAGE    DESCRIPTION

3]      Other additions include the new commands VIEW and COMPILE, plus other
	new features listed in this file.

4]      Recent additions to the ALICE team include Tom Haapanen and Tim
	Tyhurst, who have worked on testing and the sample programs.

10]     Expressions being edited are displayed in Bold Cyan on color monitors.

12]     (Bottom) The options described are the "s=" and "l=" options.

37]     "Files In" Menu.  'The special entry ".. <DIR>" refers to the'
	', there will be no ".. <DIR>" entry.'

38]     3.2.2: You can only load a .PAS file if you type it in explicitly.
	They do not show up on menus.  APIN is now on the ALICE System disk,
	rather than the supplemental disk.  Note that it needs TURBOLIB.AP
	to run correctly which is also on the System disk.

74]     If Delete is given an argument, it always leaves a placeholder
	unless the object being deleted is a placeholder already.

75]     You cannot enclose statements in a WITH, as this is not a safe
	practice due to the confusing scope rules.  If you must, "Move" the
	statements to a clipboard workspace and "Get" them back from it
	inside a WITH.

93]     The graphics buffer view system is not designed to work with TextMode
	on a monochrome display adapter.

101]    Get from the clipboard is on ALT-F9

102]    Move to the clipboard is on ALT-F10

115]    "C?NN" should read "C?=NN"

117]    'The option "-i" asks for the alternate indentation style described
	later in this chapter'

118]    The default for the location stack is 1/8th the size of the runtime
	stack.

	The default for the size of the runtime stack is s=0, which means that
	it calculates an appropriate size based on your available memory.  On
	a PC with lots of memory, this is around 15K.

127]    Note the new COMPILE command is much more appropriate here.  Also note
	that it is already set up for Turbo Pascal with CTRL-F6.

135]    Predefined constants:  The mention of Pi (3.14159...) and Strend (#0)
	belongs first.  Ignore the part about "one other special constant."

145]    The example of a multidimensional initialized array is incorrect.  The
	definition of the type must come before its use in the initialized
	variable.  Reverse the TYPE and CONST blocks.  (You can get a
	declaration block out of the proper order by creating a declarations
	placeholder and typing the declarations keyword [TYPE,CONST,VAR,etc.]
	on the placeholder.)

152]    Right after the section header for 7.7 there should be a subsection
	header "Changed routines from Standard Pascal."

161]    7.7.16 - The ALICE "GRAPH.P" is in \TURBO\GRAPH.P on the Supplemental
	disk.

165]    With the +b option, EOLN is true if EOF is true.
	With the -b option, Val allows leading spaces in numbers.

199]    The special "eoln at start of numeric read" feature only applies when
	reading from INPUT.

210]    Textmode output on the Monochrome display adapter can't be viewed
	with the VIEW command.  It's tough to single step.

212]    Alice's VAL differs slightly from Turbo's on the location of the first
	error in a number.  ALICE's VAL gives you the location of the last
	character in the string that has a valid number to the left of it.

214]    The last two paragraphs in the Writeln section belong under write,
	although they also apply to writeln.

233]    Continue is CTRL-F1.

238]    Variant part template:  There is no "end" in a variant.

241]    APRUN has been removed to conserve disk space.  It is available with
	the ALICE Large model kit.  If you wish to distribute APRUN for
	commercial purposes, the fee is very low, and intended only to cover
	our costs of registration.  We simply want to keep track of where
	our software is going.

	Normally, we expect users wishing to run software standalone will
	compile with a regular compiler.

246]    Also copy TURBOLIB.AP from the main disk to the ALICE directory.

265]    There is no dash in INLINE.  Buflen is also not supported.  It and
	other unsupported features are all reported by APIN when encountered.

271]    4th para.  Register CS must also be preserved.  Note that some machine
	language libraries we have encountered for Turbo Pascal (notably
	LINE.INV, a line drawer) are NOT preserving the BP register and thus
	cause crashes.  Be sure you preserve this register.

Help System Errata:
------------------

On the help screen for "Pop suspended state", the key referenced should
be CTRL-O.
